Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. a programig language is a formal language that tells the computer what to do in order to work.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A. Jdk contains Jre, jvm, an interpreter, a compilar, an archivar(jar),
a documentation generator(javadoc).

What is IDE?
A. IDE stands for integrated development enviroment.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. Eclipse, IntelijIdea, Netbens, j developer,

Explain the entire java life cycle.
when we write anythinh on Ide it becomes source code(makes .javafile) afterthat compiler
makes source code to bytecode(.classfile) and then Jvm load the bytecode and verifi all the codes
and jit makes perfomance of the code and then execute the code.

what is class?
class is a blue print of an object.

What is object?
A. object is an instance of a class.

What is the entry point of an application?
main method.

Why main is static?
A. Because of static we dont need to create an object to access the property
of a class. main method is the entry point of the java applicaction.we need to
level main as a staic.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A.object class

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A.classPath is a directory and path is use to point the location.path is the location of
bin file.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A. Iterface has abstract method which is not impemented.and static method which is
implemeted.on the oher hand abstract class has non asstract method which is impementet
and abstract method which is not implemented.out of two you can't be institiated.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A. no, you can call their method from subclass.

what is Access Specifier?
A.access speciar is allow or not allow to access to varriable, classes, and method.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A.oop stands for object oriented program.
Encapsulation, Inheritance,Interface,Abstraction.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A. packages in java are the way to organize files when a project has many modoles.
util, lang,sql,awt.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A.API stands for application Proagramig InterFace.
java.util, java.lang,java.io

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A. java doesn't allow multiple inheritance but if you want to achive it you have
do it by interface.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
A. when a class have more than one method and the name of the method is
same but the parameter ot signature is diffarent that is called method overloading.
It is happen in compileTime.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A. when a program runs but intarupt we call it exceptions.
exceptions is handle by five keyword: try, catch,throuh. throughs, finnaly.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A.Static keyword is mainly used for memory menagement in java. in
terms of variable static belongs to the class.
in terms of method we dont need  to create an object to access the property of a class.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A. final key word used to declare final variable and final method.
so in subclass we can not modifie it.

What is final, finally and finalize?
A. final:  keyword used to declare final variable and final method.
finnaly: we use after try catch block for further execution.
finalize:works for garbage collection. it is destroy the object taht no longer needed.
What is a constructor ?
constructor is the blue Print of a class. it has no return type.it is used
to initilize the object.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A.yes.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A.if we don't declare a constructor compilar automaticlay declare one called default constructor.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
A. This keyword refers instance variable for the current class
It is also refers current object in a method or a constructor.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A. super allow subclases to access it parent class properties.
we can use super for variable, method and constructor.

What is JVM stand for ?
A. Jvm stand for java virtual machine.

Is JVM platform independent?
A.no Jvm is not platform independent.

What version of java are you using?
java se 8

What is JAR stand for ?
A. Jar Stand for JAVA ARCHIVE

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
JDk stands for java development kit.
It is a software development enviroment which is used to develop java
appilication and applets.
jvm:jvm is an abstract machine.it is not Physically exist.it is provide a runtime
enviriment where the byte code executed.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A.jvm is an abstract machine.it is not Physically exist.it is provide a runtime
enviriment where the byte code executed.
JRE also provide runtime enviroment.it is the implemention of Jvm.

What is compile time and run time?
A.compile time occers before run time where code are coverted for executable
(source to bytecode).
run time where executable code is running.

What is heap?
A.heap is the runtime data area.objects stays in heap.

How java manage it's memory?
A.java has automatic garabage collector that mange memory automatically.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A.The String class is an immutable class.
where StringBuffer and StringBuilder classes are mutable.

What is Singleton class?
A.singleton class allow us to limit the object creation.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A. Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream.
 Deserialization is the reverse process where the byte stream is
 used to recreate the actual Java object in memory.

when to use transient variable in java?
A. when variable is not serialize.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
A. while loop check the condition before doing any tusk.
do while do singe tusk before checking condition.

What is Enum?
A.enum is constant data value.
What is Iterator?
A. Iterator is an interface Available in collection framework in
java util package.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A. Integer.

Why is String Immutable in Java?
A.String is immutable for hash map
so that they can retrieve the value object which was stored in HashMap.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
A.Constructor chaining is the process of calling
 one constructor from another constructor.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A. serial collector is a default copying collector
which uses only one GC thread for the GC operation,
while a parallel collector uses multiple GC threads for the GC operation

What is JIT stands for?
A. jit stands for Just in time .jit compiler helps the performance
of java application at run time.

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A.Java objects stays in an area called the heap.
When the heap becomes full, garbage is collected.
During the garbage collection objects that are no longer used are cleared,
so that making space for new objects.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
A. no.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A. difference between heap and stack is that stack memory is used to
store local variables and method while heap memory is used to store objects in Java.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
A.Java Reflection makes it possible to inspect classes, interfaces, fields and methods at runtime,
without knowing the names of the classes, methods etc. at compile time.

what is multithreading in java?
A. A multi-threaded program contains two or more parts that can run concurrently
and each part can handle a different task at the same time making optimal use of the
available resources specially when your computer has multiple CPUs.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
A.If you start with at least two threads inside a program,
there might be a chance when multiple threads attempt to get to the same resource.
It can even create an unexpected outcome because of concurrency issues.
A synchronized block in Java can only be executed a single thread at a time.

What is Framework?
A.Frameworks are large bodies of pre-written code where  you can
add your own code in order to solve a problem.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
A.j unit.
  JBehave.
  Serenity.
  Selenium.
  TestNG.
  QUnit.
  Cucumber.

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
A.TestNG is similar to JUnit. Few more functionalities are added to it that makes TestNG more powerful than JUnit.
It help developers to decide which framework should be used for Unit Testing.

What are the dependencies for this project?
A.gson, java-json, javax.json, mongo-java driver,mysql connector,testNg.
what is dependency injection in java?
A.In Java, before we can use methods of other classes, we first need to create the object of that class .
So, transferring the task of creating the object to someone else
and directly using the dependency is called dependency injection.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
A.Static binding happens at compile-time
while dynamic binding happens at runtime.










