Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
A.A data structure is a particular way of storing and organizing data in a computer so that it can be used efficiently.

What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
A.Following operations can be performed on the data structures:
1. Traversing. 2. Searching. 3. Inserting. 4. Deleting. 5. Sorting. 6. Merging.

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
A.numerical analysis, operating system, compiler design, database management,

what is an Array?
A.Array allow to store many data into single data type.

A.what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
A.array length is fixed. arraylist length is not fixed.
arraylist dynamacally allocated.

what is LinkedList?
A.linklist is linner data structure. it is note based
it doesn't take congiative memory address what array does.

How is an Array different from Linked List?
A.Array is index based .it takes congiative memory address .

what is queue?
A.queqe is First in first out data struture.

what is stack?
A.Stack is last in first out data struture.

what is FIFO and LIFO?
A. Fifo=first in first out, Lifo=last in first out.

what is the order of complexity?
A.Algorithmic complexity is concerned about how fast or slow particular algorithm performs.
 We define complexity as a numerical function - time versus the input size.

what is the best case to search an element from an array?
A.Linear Search with complexity O(n)
Binary Search with complexity O(log n)
Search using HASH value with complexity O(1)

what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
A.Element can be at 1st position, the last position or somewhere in between.
The worst case arises when the element is at last position or not in the array,
therefore we have to traverse the whole array giving n no. of repetitions over loop
Therefore, the worst case time complexity of linear search would be O(n).

what is tree in data structure?
A. A tree is a nonlinear data structure.
A tree can be empty with no nodes or a tree is a structure consisting of one node called the root and zero or one or more subtrees.
A tree has following general properties:One node is distinguished as a root.
exclude a root) is connected by a directed edge from exactly one other node; A direction is: parent -> children

A is a parent of B, C, D,
B is called a child of A.
on the other hand, B is a parent of E, F, K.



what is graph in data structure?
A. Graph is a non-linear data structure consisting of nodes and edges.
The nodes are sometimes also referred to as vertices and the edges are lines
or arcs that connect any two nodes in the graph

what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
A.Hashtable doesn't allow any null value or keys. Hashmap allows.

What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
A. RDBMS = Array ( Array of structures)
   Network data model = Graph.
   Hierarchical data model = Trees.

How HashMap works in java?
A.. HashMap internally stores mapping in the form of Map.
Entry object which contains both key and value object.

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
A. ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException is thrown to indicate that we are trying to access array element with an illegal index.
It  occurs when we try to access an element of an array, with an index that is negative or more than the size of array itself.

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
A.There are mainly four different ways to copy all elements of one array into another array in Java.
  Manually.
  Arrays.copyOf()
  System.arraycopy()
  Object.clone()

What is difference between an array and a linked list?
A.linklist is linner data structure. it is note based
it doesn't take congiative memory address what array does.
Array is index based .it takes congiative memory address .

What is DFS and BFS?
A.1.BFS stands for Breadth First Search. DFS stands for Depth First Search.
2. BFS uses Queue data structure for finding the shortest path.DFS uses Stack data structure.

What is Recursion?
A.Recursion in java is a process in which a method calls itself continuously

What are linear and non linear data Structures?
A.Linear data structure are:Array, queue, stack, linked list, etc.
non linear data Structure are tree and graph.

What is Big-(O)-notation?
A.Big O notation is the language we use for talking about how long an algorithm takes to run.
Big O notation is a mathematical notation that describes the limiting behavior of a function
when the argument tends towards a particular value or infinity.

Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?
Algorithm	Time Complexity
                Best	       Average        	Worst
Selection Sort	 Ω(n^2)	       θ(n^2)	           O(n^2)
Bubble Sort      Ω(n)	       θ(n^2)	           O(n^2)
Insertion Sort	 Ω(n)	       θ(n^2)              O(n^2)
Heap Sort	     Ω(n log(n))	θ(n log(n))	       O(n log(n))
Quick Sort	     Ω(n log(n))	θ(n log(n))	        (n^2)
Merge Sort	     Ω(n log(n))	θ(n log(n))	        O(n log(n))
Bucket Sort	      Ω(n+k)	     θ(n+k)	            O(n^2)
Radix Sort	       Ω(nk)	      θ(nk)	            O(nk)


Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.

         access    -search-    insert     -    remove
  Array  0(1)        0(n)          0(n)          0(n)
  stack  0(n)        0(n)         0(1)           0(1)
  queue  0(n)         0(n)         0(1)          0(1)





